The Daily Vox asked students and political experts what they thought the repercussions of the State of Capture Report would be &#8211; and whether they felt President Zuma would be removed, or step down, anytime soon.Ebrahim Fakir, political analyst Maybe I m wrong, but it looks like the level of impunity and the level of arrogance is so high that they are even prepared to dismiss, rubbish and ignore the ANC veterans who have been displaying concerns over Zuma s conduct. Because look what Kebby Maphatsoe said today, that the ANC veterans are empty tins, empty vessels just making noise. So the factional fight for change within the ANC will continue. Momentum will build, there ll be more movements, more people speaking out &#8211; but, no, I don t think they re going to remove him anytime soon.&#8221;Sibusiso Gama, 25, postgraduate student and authorSithembile Mbete, political analyst and lecturer at the University of PretoriaThe other possible option is for a vote of no confidence to be passed within Parliament, as has been approved for debate in Parliament next week. The thing that s always stopped votes of no confidence before has been the ANC could using its numbers [in Parliament] to refuse, and also that the Speaker has always refused to include it on the agenda.At this point we just don t know [whether enough ANC MPs want Zuma removed]. What we do see is that Jackson Mthembu as Chief Whip has been getting away with all of the things that he s been saying about the president, which indicates that there must be some support for him &#8211; but we don t know if it&#8217;s nearly half of the [ANC] caucus that would vote for the president to be removed. The other thing is that this sort of vote would only be successful if it was a secret ballot. It would not be successful if it was an open ballot because the ANC doesn t work like that &#8211; that people will openly vote against him. Scott King, 19, studentSimphiwe Mabaso, 19, studentEditor&#8217;s note: Our original post included an image that set out the voting breakdown in Parliament in terms of section 89 of the Constitution. Section 89 deals with the removal of the president (impeachment), whereas section 102 deals with motions of no confidence. The image has been updated.