After days of protests against its language policy, the university of Pretoria announced  on Monday that English is indeed the tongue of the future. 1. “Following many queries, the University wishes to clarify that the proposed way forward on the language policy is that all lectures should be offered in English only.” What’s happening at TUKS was bound to happen kodwa. How long did the university management think they would get away with it? — Stimroli (@_Ziraa) February 22, 2016  But what about Afrikaans (and the other nine official languages of South Africa)? 2. “To promote multilingualism and student success it is proposed that Afrikaans and Sepedi be used to provide additional support to students.” But it’s more of a commitment to a process than an announcement of change. 3. From the university again,”Changing the language policy is a statutory process. These proposals have been supported by consensus of the Senate and will be considered by the Council. Any changes to the language policy also have to be submitted to the Minister of Higher Education and Training.” Speaking to ANN7 last week, a Sasco representative, Junior Ackotia affirmed the centrality of language in expanding access to education for all South Africans. 4. “We do agree that languages have a place in our societies. Languages must be nurtured and developed but they must not be used as a barrier which prevents the African child from accessing any university.” EWN quoted the SRC’s Donovan du Plooy saying university management should quickly address concerns related to the language policy. 5. “Why does Afrikaans remain a language of instruction but a black language doesn’t? We understand that historically Afrikaans has had an advantage, it was a superior language back in apartheid, but this is not apartheid.”
 
 Similarly, the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF)’s Lungile Sonwabo says too much money is spent catering for Afrikaans. 6. “That money can be used for bursaries and residences, because they always complain that we can’t accommodate more people – but there’s still money used to cultivate Afrikaans.” How much money can Tuks save by not having these seperate Afrikaans classes — I Am Tha Bang d(o0)b (@MBeeats) February 22, 2016  So how did discussions about language lead to physical confrontations? 7. University spokesperson Anna-Retha Bouwer said: “There was an altercation after a meeting that was supposed to happen regarding feedback on the language policy process. Then there were threats of disruption of academic activities and of violence. That led to the decision to close the two campuses.” Afriforum insists that agitations for a new language policy, a campaign promise from student leaders vying for office, are a direct attack on Afrikaans students. 8.“It will surely not be in the interest of Afrikaans students if an SRC President is elected who campaigns for the demise of Afrikaans.” Julle mense is nou besig om die boere se gatte te krap. Tuks sal Afrikaans Bly ! — southafricanboer (@africanboer) February 22, 2016  Students however see the language policy at Tuks as another way in which access to education is restricted. 9. “If you’d understand the mindset of an oppressed people when you’re pushed against the wall consistently because it’s not only a crisis that we have on campus of the language barrier but we also have a crisis of the residence tradition, of quota systems at the University of Pretoria, so everything boils down to the question of race,” says Sasco’s Junior Ackotia. 10. “Some students do not speak Afrikaans, but they have to subscribe to the cultural norms attached to it. We find that this is not fair because it alienates them. They are forced to take part in activities they are not familiar with because that is the culture of the university,” Kabelo Mahlobogwane, EFFSC Tuks leader told Independent Newspapers.