If you re an avid reader of comics then you ll know that they aren t always the most diverse in their character representations. While this has changed over the years &#8211; as we are seeing more characters of different races, genders and sexuality &#8211; most characters are still white males. But one artist, Markus Prime, is trying to bring in more diversity through his reimagining s of superheroes. DANA DA SILVA rounds up.Artist Markus Prime rose to Instagram fame for his gender- and race-swapping creations of pop culture and superhero characters. These quirky and sassy characters range from The Powerpuff Girls and Dragon Ball Z to Ash Ketchum and Superman. His sketchbook, named B.R.U.H (Black Renditions of Universal Heroes) is a collection of these works, which he self-published.A photo posted by @markusprimelives on Mar 15, 2016 at 12:33pm PDTThe most important part of his book and projects is to communicate the importance of representation. For kids to be able to see characters that they have grown up idolising who they can also identify with. Prime has been drawing these characters for the past year, over time the demand for them grew and grew. Especially for his character Froku, a black female version of Dragon Ball Z s Goku.A photo posted by @markusprimelives on Mar 18, 2016 at 7:23pm PDT I really took a liking to her and people began to really appreciate my version of her. It wasn&#8217;t just about her being black, it was more about the idea that she could&#8217;ve been a real [character], he said in an interview with The Fader. This is what led him to immortalise his creations in a sketchbook.A photo posted by @markusprimelives on Mar 4, 2016 at 10:08pm PSTHe wanted to get across to kids that it s okay to draw characters who look like them. I want children of colour throughout the world to be inspired by this book and start creating things that they can identify with, he said to The Huffington Post.A photo posted by @markusprimelives on Jan 29, 2016 at 8:38am PST A photo posted by @markusprimelives on Apr 5, 2016 at 11:22am PDTWe know that comic fans are incredibly diverse in their age, gender, race and sexuality (to name a few). So it&#8217;s about time this is reflected in the comics they love. And maybe it&#8217;s time for movie production houses to sit up and take notice too.